---
title: 'Blog Post number 3'
date: 2014-08-14
permalink: /posts/2014/08/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This is a sample blog post. Lorem ipsum I can't remember the rest of lorem ipsum and don't have an internet connection right now. Testing testing testing this blog post. Blog posts are cool. 

Headings are cool
======

In this tutorial, we are going to implement a $L$ layer neural network (multiple layer perceptron) that can perform simple tasks such as digit recognization. $L$ is an arbitrary number as you require, within which we want $L-1$ weight matrices $\boldsymbol{w}^{(i)}$ that link the $i$-th and the $i+1$-th layer, and the last one is the output layer (e.g. a Softmax). We define a data matrix $\boldsymbol{X}$ ($N$ by $M$) that contains $N$ pieces of data with dimension $M$, and a target $\boldsymbol{Y}$ ($N$ by $K$), a matrix of $K$-category one-hot label. We $\textcolor{red}{strictly}$ follow \cite{xu} step by step via specifying every component and giving MATLAB implementation. Some definitions of variables.
$\boldsymbol{z}^{(i)}=\boldsymbol{a}^{(i-1)}\boldsymbol{w}^{(i-1)}$, pre-activation at the $i$-th layer;  
$\boldsymbol{a}^{(i)}=\sigma(\boldsymbol{z}^{(i)})$, activated product at the $i$-th layer;  
$\alpha$, constant learning rate;

$$
\begin{align}
  \tag{1.1}
  V_{sphere} = \frac{4}{3}\pi r^3
\end{align}
$$

$$\begin{pmatrix}a & b\\\ c & d\end{pmatrix}$$


$$begin{bmatrix}X\\Y\end{bmatrix}$$

$$\begin{align}
\frac{\partial}{\partial\boldsymbol{w}} \mathcal{C}(\boldsymbol{w}) &=\frac{\partial}{\partial\boldsymbol{w}} 
\end{align}$$

You can have many headings
======

$$
\begin{align}
\tag{1.8}
  X_0 \otimes X_1 =  
  \begin{pmatrix}
    0\begin{pmatrix} 
      0 & 1 \\\\\\\\
      1 & 0
    \end{pmatrix} & 1\begin{pmatrix}
                      0 & 1 \\\\\\\\
                      1 & 0
                     \end{pmatrix} \\\\\\\\
    1\begin{pmatrix} 
      0 & 1 \\\\\\\\
      1 & 0
     \end{pmatrix} & 0\begin{pmatrix}
                       0 & 1 \\\\\\\\
                       1 & 0
                      \end{pmatrix} 
  \end{pmatrix} = 
  \begin{pmatrix}
    0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\\\\\\\
    0 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\\\\\\\
    0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\\\\\\\
    1 & 0 & 0 & 0 
  \end{pmatrix}
\end{align}
$$

Aren't headings cool?
------
