---
title: "Adaptive debiased SGD in high-dimensional GLMs with streaming data"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-12-25-paper
excerpt: 'Online statistical inference refers to an inferential method that updates the model parameters as data is sequentially available. This approach has broad applications in network security, quantitative finance, and recommendation systems. In contrast to offline techniques where the entire dataset is used for training, online learning algorithms are anticipated to offer computational efficiency while still delivering statistical results comparable to their offline counterparts.'
date: 2024-12-25
venue: 'submitted'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Han, R., Luo, L., Luo, Y., Lin, Y., & Huang, J. (2024). Adaptive debiased SGD in high-dimensional GLMs with streaming data. To submit.'
---
Online statistical inference facilitates real-time analysis of sequentially collected data, making it different from traditional methods that rely on static datasets. This paper introduces a novel approach to online inference in high-dimensional generalized linear models, where we update regression coefficient estimates and their standard errors upon each new data arrival. In contrast to existing methods that either require full dataset access or large-dimensional summary statistics storage, our method operates in a single-pass mode, significantly reducing both time and space complexity. The core of our methodological innovation lies in an adaptive stochastic gradient descent algorithm tailored for dynamic objective functions, coupled with a novel online debiasing procedure. This allows us to maintain low-dimensional summary statistics while effectively controlling optimization errors introduced by the dynamically changing loss functions. We demonstrate that our method, termed the Approximated Debiased Lasso (ADL), not only mitigates the need for the bounded individual probability condition but also significantly improves numerical performance. Numerical experiments demonstrate that the proposed ADL method consistently exhibits robust performance across various covariance matrix structures.

<embed src="https://chattelionluo.github.io/files/Online_Inference_talk.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="600px" height="800px" />

[Download poster here](http://chattelionluo.github.io/files/Highdimensional_Poster.pdf)

The software is under construction.
